= Network Connections

The data sent over TCP and similar streaming connections are handled via
Connection and ConnectionObserver objects. A Connection object
represents the network towards which data is sent or received, a
ConnectionObserver represents the application side handling sent or
received data. For example, the C++ wrapper for Lightweight IP provides
a class ConnectionLwIP which derives from Connection; the HttpClientImpl
class derives from ConnectionObserver, since HttpClientImpl interprets
received data, parses HTTP headers, and forwards body data.

The lifetime of a Connection/ConnectionObserver pair is under control of
the network stack, since the network stacks knows when a connection is
alive and when it is terminated. The Connection object therefore derives
from SharedOwnedObserver, which holds a SharedPtr to its
SharedOwningSubject, which is the ConnectionObserver. When a connection
is closed, the Connection object is destructed, and thereby releases its
control over its ConnectionObserver, which typically results in the
ConnectionObserver being destructed.

[plantuml]
----
@startuml
    !theme cerulean-outline

    class SharedOwnedObserver {
        +bool IsAttached() const
        +SharedOwningSubject& Subject() const
        +void Detach()
        +{abstract}void Attached() {}
        +{abstract}void Detaching() {}
        -SharedOwningSubject* subject
    }

    class SharedOwningSubject {
        -SharedPtr<SharedOwnedObserver> observer
        +void Attach(const SharedPtr<SharedOwnedObserver>& observer)
        +void Detach()
        +bool IsAttached() const
        +SharedOwnedObserver& Observer() const
        +SharedPtr<SharedOwnedObserver> ObserverPtr() const
    }

    class ConnectionObserver{
        +{abstract}void SendStreamAvailable(SharedPtr<StreamWriter>&& streamWriter)
        +{abstract}void DataReceived()
        +{abstract}void Close() {...}
        +{abstract}void Abort() {...}
    }

    class Connection {
        +{abstract}void RequestSendStream(std::size_t sendSize)
        +{abstract}std::size_t MaxSendStreamSize() const
        +{abstract}SharedPtr<StreamReaderWithRewinding> ReceiveStream()
        +{abstract}void AckReceived()
        +{abstract}void CloseAndDestroy()
        +{abstract}void AbortAndDestroy()
    }

    SharedOwnedObserver <|-- ConnectionObserver 
    SharedOwningSubject <|-- Connection
    SharedOwnedObserver -left- SharedOwningSubject : < owns
@enduml
----

The methods on Connection and ConnectionObserver for sending and
receiving data are geared towards asynchronous behaviour and as little
copying as possible. By having fully asynchronous behaviour, the need
for threads and/or blocking waits is completely avoided, and one
application can easily handle multiple connections, in parallel with SPI
transfers, UART communication, etc. without the need for locks or
wasting MCU time on busy waits. When DataReceived() is called on the 
ConnectionObserver by the Connection, data to be received is of non-zero length.
